#Finding Lane Lines on the Road  
The goals / steps of this project are the following:  
•	Make a pipeline that finds lane lines on the road  
•	Reflect on your work in a written report  
Reflection  
1. Describe your pipeline. As part of the description, explain how you modified the draw_lines() function.
My pipeline for detecting lane lines consists of 6 Steps. First, each frame of a video is converted into a grayscale. Then, a gaussian blur is applied to filter out noise. I found that a kernel size of 9 works best (Image 1). After smoothing the image, I applied the canny edge function to detect edges. For that I used a low threshold of 50 and a high threshold of 180 (Image 2). Afterwards I defined the 4 vertices for the mask (leftlow=[30,540], rightlow=[930,540], leftup=[460,320], rightup=[510,320]) (Image 3). Only edges inside this mask are being used for the Hough-Transformation, which is the fifth step in my pipeline. Before creating the Hough-lines, I defined parameters for it, which took a lot of tweaking. I got the best results using rho=6, theta=pi/60, a threshold of 5, a minimum line length of 45 and a maximum line gap of 60. Afterwards I applied the Hough-lines function, which draws lines onto an empty canvas (Image 4). Using the weighted_img function, I overlayed the original image and the created Hough-lines (Image 5).
In order to draw a single line on the left and right lanes, I modified the draw_lines() by calculate the slope for each Hough-line (using formula (y2-y1)/(x2-x1)). If the calculated slope is greater than 0, the Hough line probably belongs to the right lane. To make sure, lines that have a positive slope but also have a x coordinate, which is located on the left side of the image are not used. Also, lines are not used if the slope is too flat. That way they won’t distort the result of the single line later. Every other line is used. Then 2 empty arrays – one containing every x-coordinate and one containing every y coordinate – are being filled. After every of line the Hough lines has been processed and 2 arrays have bee filled, the poly1d function was applied to create a linear function using the 2 arrays. For creating a single line, it is necessary to know 4 coordinates (2 x- and 2 y-coordinates). Y1=540 and y2=320 was used to have an upper and lower limit. To calculate the 2 x values, y1 and y2 were used in the linear function created earlier. Finally, the line was drawn using those 4 coordinates. The left line was created the same way. The result with the single Lines can be seen in image 6.
  
  
  
2. Identify potential shortcomings with your current pipeline
One potential shortcoming would be what would happen when there is a marking inside the masked area (or for example a manhole cover), which is detected by the canny function. This would distort the created line and shift it to one side or rotate it. Another problem is that the drawn line is only linear and not a quadratic function.  This way, curves are not accurately represented. Also, the lines wobble, and are not smooth.
3. Suggest possible improvements to your pipeline
A possible improvement would be to implement a variable, which averages the position of the coordinates of each lane lines (using for example the last 3 lines). This could prevent the wobble of the lane lines. Also, the mask could be modified, so that the part of the road in between the lanes is not used to create Hough-lines. For that the mask should have the shape of an arch, instead of a trapeze. 

